README.md, before:

# Our Domain Of Interest
For our project, we wanted to explore the field of **environmental trends**. All of our group members are concerned about environmental trends that we are seeing, especially because climate change seems to already have reached such an advanced stage while people in authority mostly continue to remain unbothered by it. We wanted to use data to learn more about it while also educating others about what exactly is happening with our planet's environment. By answering some of the questions we were curious about, we hope to contribute to the solution to this extremely urgent problem. One particular issue we were all concerned about is the **effects of climate change**, and what factors may be contributing to it.

## Questions we want to answer
- In what ways does pollution factor into climate change?
- Using coral reef statistics as an example, how significant has the effect of climate change been over time?
- Does the amount of pollution in cities affect the temperature?
- In what direction are the temperatures of areas moving? Is this directly caused by any change in climate?
- At what scale (city, state, country) do changes in temperature become significant?
- Can we use our data to predict future trends with climate change?
- How do CO2 emissions compare for the US and the world?
- How does income group compare to a country's emissions?
- Which countries have the largest growth in CO2 over time?

# Other Data Driven Projects Like Ours:
## [Understanding Climate Change: A Data Driven Approach](http://climatechange.cs.umn.edu/)
- Funded by NSF
- Involves four different universities
- Aims to explain environmental trends pertaining to climate change and find out what the best course of action there is to take to fight against climate change

## [Big Data and Climate Change](https://www.mdpi.com/2504-2289/3/1/12/pdf)
- Written by Hossein Hassani, Xu Huang and Emmanuel Silva
- Aims to explain how we can apply concepts of big data concepts to climate change research

## [EmBARK Climate Analytics Project](https://climateanalytics.org/projects/embark-temporal-evolution-of-barriers-to-adaptation-and-their-relevance-for-climate-related-loss-and-damage/)
- Project funded by Oxford, ECI, and IIASA
- Aims to investigate trajectories in climate change and analyze their relevance as potential socioeconomic barriers

---

# Our Data Sources

## Source One: [US Pollution Data from 2000 to 2016](https://www.kaggle.com/sogun3/uspollution)
- Data Scraped from the US EPA database and hosted on kaggle.com
- Data gives statistics on pollution in major US cities
- 29 features, 1,746,661 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset:
- In what ways does pollution factor into climate change?
- Does the amount of pollution in cities affect the temperature?
- Can we use our data to predict future trends with climate change?

## Source Two: [Global Coral Bleaching dataset](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/KUVQKY)
- Data scraped from the Harvard Database and hosted on the WorldFish Dataverse under Harvard Dataverse
- Data is a compilation of statistics on the coral bleaching phenomenon on a global scale (information was sourced from UNEP-WCMC, Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA), CoralList)
- 28 features, 6,190 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset:
- Using coral reef statistics as an example, how significant has the effect of climate change been over time?

## Source Three: [Global Land Temperatures dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/berkeleyearth/climate-change-earth-surface-temperature-data#GlobalTemperatures.csv)
- Data repackaged from a compilation put together from the Berkeley Earth section of the Lawerence Berkeley National Laboratory, and hosted on kaggle.com
- Data is a compilation of multiple sets that are sorted by scale (city, state, country, etc)
- 9 features, 3,193 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset
- In what direction are the temperatures of areas moving? Is this directly caused by any change in climate?
- At what scale (city, state, country) do changes in temperature become significant?
- Can we use our data to predict future trends with climate change?

## Source Four: [World Countries: CO2 Emissions 1960 to 2014](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.ATM.CO2E.PC?end=2018&name_desc=false&start=1960&view=chart)
- Data from Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee and hosted on
data.worldbank.org
- Data consists of CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita) of 264 countries and
their income group
- CO2 emissions data: 59 features, 269 rows; income data: 5 features, 265 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset
- How do CO2 emissions compare for the US and the world?
- How does income group compare to a country's emissions?
- Which countries have the largest growth in CO2 over time?

Commit message:

Added questions for coral reef bleaching data

README.md, after:

# Our Domain Of Interest
For our project, we wanted to explore the field of **environmental trends**. All of our group members are concerned about environmental trends that we are seeing, especially because climate change seems to already have reached such an advanced stage while people in authority mostly continue to remain unbothered by it. We wanted to use data to learn more about it while also educating others about what exactly is happening with our planet's environment. By answering some of the questions we were curious about, we hope to contribute to the solution to this extremely urgent problem. One particular issue we were all concerned about is the **effects of climate change**, and what factors may be contributing to it.

## Questions we want to answer
- In what ways does pollution factor into climate change?
- Using coral reef statistics as an example, how significant has the effect of climate change been over time?
- Does the amount of pollution in cities affect the temperature?
- In what direction are the temperatures of areas moving? Is this directly caused by any change in climate?
- At what scale (city, state, country) do changes in temperature become significant?
- Can we use our data to predict future trends with climate change?
- How do CO2 emissions compare for the US and the world?
- How does income group compare to a country's emissions?
- Which countries have the largest growth in CO2 over time?

# Other Data Driven Projects Like Ours:
## [Understanding Climate Change: A Data Driven Approach](http://climatechange.cs.umn.edu/)
- Funded by NSF
- Involves four different universities
- Aims to explain environmental trends pertaining to climate change and find out what the best course of action there is to take to fight against climate change

## [Big Data and Climate Change](https://www.mdpi.com/2504-2289/3/1/12/pdf)
- Written by Hossein Hassani, Xu Huang and Emmanuel Silva
- Aims to explain how we can apply concepts of big data concepts to climate change research

## [EmBARK Climate Analytics Project](https://climateanalytics.org/projects/embark-temporal-evolution-of-barriers-to-adaptation-and-their-relevance-for-climate-related-loss-and-damage/)
- Project funded by Oxford, ECI, and IIASA
- Aims to investigate trajectories in climate change and analyze their relevance as potential socioeconomic barriers

---

# Our Data Sources

## Source One: [US Pollution Data from 2000 to 2016](https://www.kaggle.com/sogun3/uspollution)
- Data Scraped from the US EPA database and hosted on kaggle.com
- Data gives statistics on pollution in major US cities
- 29 features, 1,746,661 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset:
- In what ways does pollution factor into climate change?
- Does the amount of pollution in cities affect the temperature?
- Can we use our data to predict future trends with climate change?

## Source Two: [Global Coral Bleaching dataset](https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/KUVQKY)
- Data scraped from the Harvard Database and hosted on the WorldFish Dataverse under Harvard Dataverse
- Data is a compilation of statistics on the coral bleaching phenomenon on a global scale (information was sourced from UNEP-WCMC, Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA), CoralList)
- 28 features, 6,190 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset:
- Using coral reef statistics as an example, how significant has the effect of climate change been over time?
- What year had the highest rate or highest number of instances of coral reef bleaching?
- Which region/s had the highest amount of coral reef bleaching and does this have something to do with their position relative to the equator?

## Source Three: [Global Land Temperatures dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/berkeleyearth/climate-change-earth-surface-temperature-data#GlobalTemperatures.csv)
- Data repackaged from a compilation put together from the Berkeley Earth section of the Lawerence Berkeley National Laboratory, and hosted on kaggle.com
- Data is a compilation of multiple sets that are sorted by scale (city, state, country, etc)
- 9 features, 3,193 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset
- In what direction are the temperatures of areas moving? Is this directly caused by any change in climate?
- At what scale (city, state, country) do changes in temperature become significant?
- Can we use our data to predict future trends with climate change?

## Source Four: [World Countries: CO2 Emissions 1960 to 2014](https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/EN.ATM.CO2E.PC?end=2018&name_desc=false&start=1960&view=chart)
- Data from Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee and hosted on
data.worldbank.org
- Data consists of CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita) of 264 countries and
their income group
- CO2 emissions data: 59 features, 269 rows; income data: 5 features, 265 rows

### Questions we can answer from this dataset
- How do CO2 emissions compare for the US and the world?
- How does income group compare to a country's emissions?
- Which countries have the largest growth in CO2 over time?
